imixs-adapters-documents/README.md, before:

# Imixs-Documents

The Imixs-Documents is a adapter project for collecting textual information from attached documents during the processing phase.
This extracted text information is added into the item '_dms_' wich can be part of the lucene full-text-index. The DMS meta data is handled by the DMSPlugin.


## Plugins

The Imixs-Document adapter supports two kind of parsers

 * DocumentCoreParser (supports a core set of office documents)
 
 * DocumentTikaParser (supports all kind of documents)
 
To activate the parsing process one of the following plugins can be configured into a BPMN model. 

	org.imixs.workflow.documents.DocumentCoreParserPlugin

	org.imixs.workflow.documents.DocumentTikaParserPlugin

See details about the different parsers below. 

## Searching Documents

Imixs-Documents provide the feature to search also for the content of parsed documents. To activate this feature, the item 'dms' must be included into the lucene fulltext index. You can add the attribute to the lucene configuration in the imixs.properties file:

	lucence.fulltextFieldList=.....,dms
	

# How to Install

To include the imixs-adapters-documents plugins the following jar file must be part of the EJB module:

	imixs-adapters-documents-${imixs.adapters.version}.jar
 
## The DocumentCoreParser

The DocumentCoreParser is based on the apache libraris '[apache-poi](http://poi.apache.org/)' and '[apache-pdfbox](pdfbox.apache.org)'. The parser supports the following file typs:
 
  * .pdf - PDF Documents
  * .doc - MS-Office doc files
  * .docx - MS-Office docx files
 
 
 
### Deployment

Add the following artifact versions into the master pom.xml

		<!-- Imixs-Adaters -->
		<org.imixs.adapters.version>1.5.2-SNAPSHOT</org.imixs.archive.version>
		<apache.poi.version>3.17</apache.poi.version>
		<apache.pdfbox.version>2.0.7</apache.pdfbox.version>
		
		  
To integrate the DocumetCoreParser the application must include the following dependencies:

	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.poi</groupId>
		<artifactId>poi-scratchpad</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.poi.version}</version>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.pdfbox</groupId>
		<artifactId>pdfbox</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.pdfbox.version}</version>
	</dependency>

	

## The DocumentTikaParser

The DocumentTikaParser is based on the [apache tika project](https://tika.apache.org/). 
The Apache Tika™ toolkit detects and extracts metadata and text from over a thousand different file types (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF). All of these file types can be parsed through a single interface, making Tika useful for search engine indexing, content analysis. 


### Deployment



Add the following artifact versions into the master pom.xml

		<!-- Imixs-Adaters -->
		<org.imixs.adapters.version>1.5.2-SNAPSHOT</org.imixs.archive.version>
		<apache.tika.version>1.16</apache.tika.version>

  
To integrate the DocumetTikaParser the application must include the following dependencies:

	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.tika</groupId>
		<artifactId>tika-core</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.tika.version}</version>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.tika</groupId>
		<artifactId>tika-parsers</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.tika.version}</version>
	</dependency>

**Notes for Wildfly:** 
As tika has a bunch of dependencies it is recommended to deploy tika as a module under wildfly.

Commit message:

addes junit test for io.konik
issue #57

imixs-adapters-documents/README.md, after:

# Imixs-Documents

The Imixs-Documents is a adapter project for collecting textual information from attached documents during the processing phase.
This extracted text information is added into the item '_dms_' wich can be part of the lucene full-text-index. The DMS meta data is handled by the DMSPlugin.


## Plugins

The Imixs-Document adapter supports two kind of parsers

 * DocumentCoreParser (supports a core set of office documents)
 
 * DocumentTikaParser (supports all kind of documents)
 
To activate the parsing process one of the following plugins can be configured into a BPMN model. 

	org.imixs.workflow.documents.DocumentCoreParserPlugin

	org.imixs.workflow.documents.DocumentTikaParserPlugin

See details about the different parsers below. 

## Searching Documents

Imixs-Documents provide the feature to search also for the content of parsed documents. To activate this feature, the item 'dms' must be included into the lucene fulltext index. You can add the attribute to the lucene configuration in the imixs.properties file:

	lucence.fulltextFieldList=.....,dms
	

# ZUGFeRD Adapter

The adapter project includes additional support for ZUGFeRD PDF files. We use the io.konik lib to extract the invoice data.
This feature is still under development. 



# How to Install

To include the imixs-adapters-documents plugins the following jar file must be part of the EJB module:

	imixs-adapters-documents-${imixs.adapters.version}.jar
 
## The DocumentCoreParser

The DocumentCoreParser is based on the apache libraris '[apache-poi](http://poi.apache.org/)' and '[apache-pdfbox](pdfbox.apache.org)'. The parser supports the following file typs:
 
  * .pdf - PDF Documents
  * .doc - MS-Office doc files
  * .docx - MS-Office docx files
 
 
 
### Deployment

Add the following artifact versions into the master pom.xml

		<!-- Imixs-Adaters -->
		<org.imixs.adapters.version>1.5.2-SNAPSHOT</org.imixs.archive.version>
		<apache.poi.version>3.17</apache.poi.version>
		<apache.pdfbox.version>2.0.7</apache.pdfbox.version>
		
		  
To integrate the DocumetCoreParser the application must include the following dependencies:

	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.poi</groupId>
		<artifactId>poi-scratchpad</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.poi.version}</version>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.pdfbox</groupId>
		<artifactId>pdfbox</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.pdfbox.version}</version>
	</dependency>

	

## The DocumentTikaParser

The DocumentTikaParser is based on the [apache tika project](https://tika.apache.org/). 
The Apache Tika™ toolkit detects and extracts metadata and text from over a thousand different file types (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF). All of these file types can be parsed through a single interface, making Tika useful for search engine indexing, content analysis. 


### Deployment



Add the following artifact versions into the master pom.xml

		<!-- Imixs-Adaters -->
		<org.imixs.adapters.version>1.5.2-SNAPSHOT</org.imixs.archive.version>
		<apache.tika.version>1.16</apache.tika.version>

  
To integrate the DocumetTikaParser the application must include the following dependencies:

	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.tika</groupId>
		<artifactId>tika-core</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.tika.version}</version>
	</dependency>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.apache.tika</groupId>
		<artifactId>tika-parsers</artifactId>
		<version>${apache.tika.version}</version>
	</dependency>

**Notes for Wildfly:** 
As tika has a bunch of dependencies it is recommended to deploy tika as a module under wildfly.
